
-------------------------------- DBMS - SQL --------------------------------

SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It is the standard language for relational 
database management systems. It is especially useful in handling organized 
data comprised of entities (variables) and relations between different entities 
of the data.


* What is Database?
A database is an organized collection of data, stored and retrieved digitally from a
remote or local computer system.


* What is DBMS?
DBMS stands for Database Management System. DBMS is a system software responsible 
for the creation, retrieval, updation, and management of the database. It ensures 
that our data is consistent, organized, and is easily accessible by serving as an 
interface between the database and its end-users or application software.


* What is RDBMS?
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. RDBMS stores data in the 
form of a collection of tables, and relations can be defined between the 
common fields of these tables. Most modern database management systems like MySQL, 
Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle are based on RDBMS.


* Advantages of DBMS:
1. Controls database redundancy
2. Data sharing
3. Easy maintenance
4. Reduce time
5. Provides backup
6. Multiple User Interface


* Data Corruption: It arises when there is an accidental deletion of data or 
  any changes made into the database. 


* Data Redundancy: When same piece of data exists in multiple tables of a 
  database in multiple forms, it will lead to data redundancy. 


* What are Tables and Fields?
A table is an organized collection of data stored in the form of rows and columns.
Columns can be categorized as vertical and rows as horizontal. The columns in a 
table are called fields while the rows can be referred to as records.


* What are Constraints in SQL?
It refers to a set of rules for the data in a table. Constraints are used to 
limit the type of a data so that the data consistency is not disturbed. 
The constraints are:


1. NOT NULL - Restricts NULL value from being inserted into a column.

2. CHECK - Verifies that all values in a field satisfy a condition.

3. DEFAULT - Automatically assigns a default value if no value has been 
   specified for the field.

4. UNIQUE CONSTRAINT - It is a constraint which ensures that all the values in 
   a column should be different. It is used to restrict a repeated data in a 
   particular column.

5. INDEX - It is used to locate and access the data in a database. Indexes 
   are created using a few database columns.

6. PRIMARY KEY - Uniquely identifies each record in a table.

7. FOREIGN KEY - It is the key of one table whose values are derived from the 
   primary key of another table to relate the two tables.


* What is a Join? List its different types.
  The SQL Join clause is used to combine records (rows) from two or more tables in 
  a SQL database based on a related column between the two.
  There are three different types of JOINs in SQL:


1. (INNER) JOIN: Retrieves records that have matching values in both tables 
   involved in the join. This is the widely used join for queries.


2. OUTER JOIN: There are three types of outer joins:
		a. LEFT (OUTER) JOIN: Retrieves all the records/rows from the left 
		and the matched records/rows from the right table.

		b. RIGHT (OUTER) JOIN: Retrieves all the records/rows from the right 
		and the matched records/rows from the left table.
   		
		c. FULL (OUTER) JOIN: Retrieves all the records where there is a match 
		in either the left or right table.


3. CROSS JOIN : Returns the cartesian product of the tables involved in the joins


* Select Command:
  The select statement is used to select data from a database.

1. Every table is broken up into smaller entities called fields.
2. A field is a column in a table.
3. A record is a horizontal entity in a table.
4. A column is a vertical entity in a table.


* Keywords/SQL Commands: 
  SQL keywords are NOT case sensitive: select is the same as SELECT
  Some Important SQL Commands:

1. SELECT - extracts data from a database
2. UPDATE - updates data in a database
3. DELETE - deletes data from a database
4. INSERT INTO - inserts new data into a database
5. CREATE DATABASE - creates a new database
6. ALTER DATABASE - modifies a database
7. CREATE TABLE - creates a new table
8. ALTER TABLE - modifies a table
9. DROP TABLE - deletes a table
10. CREATE INDEX - creates an index (search key)
11. DROP INDEX - deletes an index


* SELECT DISTINCT: It is used to return only distinct values 
  (if a column contains many duplicate values)


* WHERE: It is used to extract only those records which 
  fulfill a specified condition. Operators Used in WHERE:
1. = : Equal
2. < : Less than
3. > : Greater than
4. <= : Less than or equal
5. >= : Greater than or equal
6. <> : Not equal
7. BETWEEN : between a certain range
8. LIKE : Search for a pattern
9. IN : To specify multiple possible values for a column
10. Not in can be used to specify values not required.


* AND, OR, NOT Operators:
1. AND- Displays a record if all conditions separated by AND are True.
2. OR- Displays a record if any of the conditions separated by OR is True.
3. NOT- Displays a record if condition is Not True.


* Aggregate Functions:
An aggregate function in SQL performs a calculation on multiple values and returns a 
single value. SQL provides many aggregate functions that include-
1. COUNT() - The COUNT() function returns the number of rows in a database table.
2. MAX() - The MAX() function returns the highest value (maximun) in a set.
3. MIN() - The MIN() function returns the lowest value (minimum) in a set.
4. SUM() - The SUM() function returns the total sum of a numeric column.
5. AVG() - The AVG() function returns the average value of a numeric column.
